hey there welcome back to the channel I
wanted to talk today about recession
you've heard it before of course every
article seems to be suggesting that
we'll have a soft landing and here we
are approaching a recession but now
things have changed in fact they've
really changed you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you I
wanted to start with the earnings
recession because we can look at
recession in different ways and here's
the first thing it's already over yes
that's right right before your very eyes
we've gone through a recession and come
up the other side the S&P 500's earning
recession has officially ended and so
that's what they're telling us anyway
but what about the economic recession
well it seems to be a different story
and that plays a role in what happens in
the stock market speaking of the stock
market you could see that it is
concentrated in the hands of just a few
stocks in fact we've never seen anything
like this before contribution from the
top 10 S&P 500 stocks right now
2023 it's like entirely the case like
these small handful the the big names
that you know the apples and so on
they're the whole stock market right now
that's worrisome and that's not healthy
and we know that and there is a bubble
that has formed can you guess where that
bubble is maybe some overvaluation maybe
a little froth you know you know when
you get an espresso and there's that
little crma on top well that crma might
be might be delicious might be the best
part in fact of that but goes away
rather quickly doesn't it so where do we
find the parallel here in the
markets care take a guess well I think
you know I really think you
do Tech regains momentum you could see
infotech as a percentage of the S&P 500
is at a 202 three High these things are
crazy I mean you look at the different
ratios you look at it in any different
way you get PE ratios in fact and I've
seen things that have gone off the
charts but nobody seems to be losing
faith look at this ai ai is the Hot
Topic on earnings
calls you could see the AI mentions on
earning on conference calls for the
NASDAQ 100 companies over the past few
quarters ERS it's gone crazy as soon as
chat GPT came out this is all companies
were allowed to talk about because they
got more attention they got more money
and that helps them to grow doesn't
matter if your company has nothing to do
with AI you just say that you have that
and here we go Mark Zuckerberg made a
big mistake you see he called his thing
the metaverse if you would have called
it the AI verse it would have done well
I mean that's unbelievable but that's
true it really is true and that's the
kind of thing that we have seen now in
more recent cases here that froth has
worn off and now investors are kind of
saying ah you know what this AI thing it
wasn't you know all that it's crap
cracked up to be and maybe it's going to
take a longer time to get to where we
need to be then some people thought so
you know but what happens here in any
stock in any indicator in fact it
usually goes well above or well below
where you would think it always
overreacts and just like if we were to
take a stock market chart right
here we see there's an indicator called
the Binger bands everyone on my money
GPS Finance live we know about this
already but the Binger bands are kind of
like the oxygen that's there for the
stock market and if it makes its way out
out which it does make its way out of
those Binger bands it loses oxygen and
so it needs to come back within that and
this happens to be time and time again
and we see that everywhere we could see
it on different time frames like short
time frames on longer time frames we see
it in one sector or another sector and
we also have seen it throughout history
and so we know that these patterns do in
fact repeat it's never a good thing when
we see froth we don't want to because it
usually results in layoffs so people get
hired hey maybe that person just got
hired a few months prior but they get
fir that's never a good thing and this
is the type of examples here that we see
with froth Starbucks stock Rises 10% as
us cons customers buy into pricier
drinks Is that real is is that why the
stock went up 10% come on let's be
honest door Dash shares jump more than
15% on guided
and narrowing net loss oh they're losing
less money now the stock goes up in a
day
15% McDonald's Revenue sores as it hikes
menu prices $18 Big Max it was one
example they were showing here that
people were paying
$18 for a Big Mac if you can believe it
or not this happens to be the luxury
market and that uh purple line there is
Louis Vuitton Louis Vuitton they own all
kinds of you know LH they own all these
different luxury Brands they've come off
the bottom okay clearly um but we'll see
what happens because I think it's
interesting to follow that and the
luxury Market is not necessarily doing
as well as many expected that it would
be more resilient but China has been
really the determining Factor there
because a lot of that money in like the
European Brands like that they're not
buying as much as they did before the
Chinese consumer is doing something
different than the American Consumer
consumer
overall here we have it there's still
plenty of enthusiasm surrounding AI oh
that's right there's no question about
that look at Nvidia stock as one example
however there's suggestion that the it
is overvalued there's no question people
do believe that but they say well you
know it's the future so it's not going
to go
down what about Warren Buffett what has
he been doing well
seems to be that Warren Buffett is
holding on to a record amount of cash in
fact it is
157 billion dollar in cash or cash
equivalents here we have it Apple versus
birkshire and apple is holding on to it
a lot as well however they have
diminished that pile uh significantly
over the last several years so they've
uh been using that elsewhere and you
just compare the two all right it is
very clear that Burkshire Warren Buffett
Charlie Munger they feel that it's
better to just hold on to and by the way
they they've purchased stuff that just
they haven't made big purchases why if
they're going to make 5% on their money
holding in cash or cash equivalents why
would they go out and buy a stock are
they going to get 5% back most cases not
from a dividend they're not going to get
5% are they going to get that from the
market they might say h you know maybe
I'll get five but maybe I won't get five
and what's rule number one Warren
Buffett's rule number one don't lose
money and so that's part of their
strategy this is called risk
parity I think it's important to
understand that I'm not saying you
should do what Warren buff is doing look
they own a lot of stock that's obvious
you can see how what in the case of
Apple they own a massive quantity of
Apple stock but they haven't invested
entirely into equities so we see that
right look at it birkshire net purchases
or sales of equity Securities and
they're doing more selling than buying
at this time so it just gives us a
little bit of an idea of what they're
doing and they've been successful over
so many decades during 2020 they they oh
you know these guys are washed up
they're old d d but what happened in the
end let's be honest they proved everyone
wrong evolution of initial unemployment
claims after the yield curve inversion
so in this article here they're talking
about Mass layoffs they're talking about
what's going to happen to the economy
and we turn to this it's the yield curve
inversion and that is and happens to be
the most one of the most accurate
indicators of a recession why do we care
about a recession well generally what
happens is that in a recession you have
the the you know the markets may come
down you may have layoffs that take
place after this while unemployment
Rises this is a general fact okay now
the stock market operates a little bit
differently it depends on why this is
happening it depends how steep that is
if it's 2008 and like banks are failing
Financial companies are failing and we
got people you know one by one are going
out the door that could be a different
scenario than you know what we've seen
other other Cycles too I use the AI that
I'm developing at this time uh this GPT
I'll show you in a second to basically
build a more reasonable and sound
explanation for what's going on I don't
think a lot of people are utilizing
historical data in order to make sense
of what we're seeing today this happens
to be one and looking at it the
evolution of initial unemployment claims
at the yield curve inversion and what we
can see is the months following
inversion of the yield curve we're
getting very close to the point in time
in which we can expect that there would
be a recession called at some point okay
that that's all it's saying recession
could be deep it could be shallow
they're telling us this a soft Landing
but we need to understand that that
could be the Catalyst it all depends on
how it goes and I want to make that
clear to kind of seal the deal on this
video right here and now you might be
asking what can I do well for so many
people you know they're they're
oblivious unfortunately because they're
not going to get the latest and greatest
information these videos give you that
I've got compass on my website as well
it's free to everybody and what I want
to do is get the people that are in my
money GPS Finance Group which is a live
session that's held on Fridays and it's
closed group group and what I do is
provide a 30 minute to a 1 hour detailed
presentation about new things that are
happening I also go into the stock
charts we look at that we look at
several different indicators and the
things that are happening so they are
completely up to dat on a weekly basis
and now I'm going even one step further
which is the GPT which of course does
not give us the beat all end all it's
not like okay trade here trade there
that's not what this is
this is so that we can understand what's
happening compare that to the previous
cycles and actually have the very real
information that we can utilize today to
make better investment choices this one
here for now I'm calling it fire your
financial advisor and it gets into all
that depth like I said you got to read
you got to know the information of the
past you got to do that on your own but
now we have something that will actually
dig into it for for us as well so that
we can kind of say okay I remember this
I know this information oh and this is
also saying the same thing now I have
more confidence and we want
probabilities on our side my mentor that
taught me trading talks about
probabilities all the time every
conversation and that is something that
I will not forget and you can see that
here we want probabilities on our side
anybody interested click the link in the
description for that and we have the
comment of the day thank you very much
as always what's sad is what has
happened over history I mean it's gone
over and over again the same pattern is
repeating and he says that these
economic Geniuses go in circles and they
never come up with anything that will
permanently
work it's almost as if it was
intentional what do you think
intentional or coincidence I'll let you
decide I think you know where I stand on
that and uh if you you know really
enjoyed this video hit that thumbs up
and of course as always join me each and
every day I'll see you next time take
care